High in this video we're going to look at yet another application of decorator's.
So far we've seen some pretty straightforward decorator's a timing decorator logging decorator.
We also saw we could stack them you know and have multiple decorators but you might think that decorators
are relegated to these very simplistic kind of tasks which kind of occur outside of the function.
They don't really change the behavior of the function they just call the function itself and they did
some extra stuff.
So they added some functionality but they really can modify the behavior of the function itself.
But decorators can do a lot more than that they can in fact modify the behavior of the function by doing
some pretty interesting stuff.
In this case we're going to look at a technique called memoization.
Now memoization is something that allows you to build up a cache of the function's value of functions
return values based on the input parameters.
So we'll take a look at a very simple example here.
And it's going back to the Banaji sequence.
So think back few videos ago we looked at the Fibonacci numbers and we looked at three different methods
of calculating them.
One was using recursion.
Another one was a loop and another one was using that reduce function and we saw that the most elegant
way of writing with or without meaning you know algorithm was using recursion.
It was very straightforward but it was also the most inefficient way of doing it.
And in fact the loop is the one that ran the fastest.
So let's go back now to that recursive approach and let's see if we can do something to fix this.
Now obviously there's going to be an associated cost and that cost is going to be memory because we're
going to try and cache the values that have been already calculated so that the next time they're requested
we don't have to calculate them again.
But of course that means you're storing them in memory or on disk maybe if you try to you know use a
database where you're caching but in this case we're going to use memory.
So there's going to be a cost associated with that but it's going to decrease the computational time.
So let's go ahead and try that so we can say death fib.
We're just going to go back and use the same example.
So I want to however print that we are calculating fib so that we can see the calculations that are
happening.
So we're going to say we're calculating five of em and then we'll return the Fibonacci numbers so we're
going to say return 1 if and is less than 3 elf's we're going to return EF 5 and minus 1
plus fib off and minus 2 right.
The sum of the two previous numbers and that's it.
That was it.
So if we call fib let's say upturn then you as you can see we have all these interim calculations that
these intermediary calculations that get repeated right seven gets repeated multiple times.
And of course the two is the ones in the fives.
Even more often.
So it's inefficient.
So this fib of seven gets really asked for at a later time.
I can find it.
There we go.
Here's again another forbs seven.
And because of that it was forced to calculate for both 6 and 5 again because it had already been calculated.
Right.
When we called fib 7 here we also calculated 6 and 5 before.
So as you can see it's tremendously inefficient.
So now let's go ahead and see how we could implement some kind of caching.
And our first method is going to be just using a simple class.
So let's go ahead and write this so-called class fib.
And we have to do our in it and our initialization.
We're going to create an instance property which is going to be our cash and our cash therefore is going
to be a dictionary and the dictionary is going to contain key value pairs.
The key is going to be the N and the value is going to be the end Fibonacci number the value itself.
So in this case we are going to pre-populated our cash with two numbers.
The first and second Fibonacci numbers which is both both of them are 1.
And that's it.
That's all we need for in it.
Next we need to define the Fibonacci number itself.
So the Fibonacci function itself.
So that takes in a single parameter.
And now this is an instance method.
So what are we going to do.
Well we're going to first look in the cache.
If the element is not in the cache What do we want to do.
Well we need to calculate it and store it in the cash.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So if and is not in self that cash.
So it all adds up and is not in the cash.
What do we need to do what we need to calculated and store it in the cash.
So we have to say self-taught cash n equals fib and minus one plus and minus one plus fib and minus
two.
So now we've calculated it but of course it's not a fib.
It's self-taught food.
Right.
Because we're using that method recursively so we're using our instance method.
And then we have to return while at this point it is in the cash we just add it in.
If it wasn't there already.
Right.
So if it wasn't there we calculated it started in the cash.
Now we know it's in the cash.
And if it was already in the cash Well it's already in the cash we can just return it.
The only other thing that I want to do is do the same thing as before and just say that hey you know
if we don't have a cash hit that means we have to calculate Thebe.
So let's just go ahead and indicate that we're doing so by just doing the same thing as before just
printing that out.
OK.
So that should do the trick.
That should have implemented caching.
Let's go ahead and try that.
So first we have to create an instance of our first class.
Let's do that.
Assign it to F and now we can call f let's say that fib on 10.
And what you'll notice is that it calculated ten nine eight seven six five four three.
Yeah because those were not pre-calculated so I'd have to go figure them out and then two and one of
them have to calculate because they were already in the cache two and one were already in the cache.
But you'll notice it didn't have to redo any of those calculations.
So instead of getting this huge long list of you know function calls it was limited to a far fewer number
of calls and the result is still 55.
It still works correctly.
So this is an example of how we can essentially cash our results in order to make our function our recursive
function more efficient.
But as we saw in all your videos you know simple classes like this can also be written using closures.
So let's do that.
Let's go ahead and thost right a closer.
Your approach to doing the same thing.
So how are we going to do this.
Well let's go ahead and create this function.
And it doesn't take any parameters and it's going to have a cache and the cache is just going to be
a dictionary and the dictionary is going to be pre-populated with these two values.
The first two Fibonacci numbers.
So I'm doing kind of exactly the same thing that's happening in the class except I'm using a closure
now here.
I'm going to call in a function I'm going to define an in a function and let's call it calc fib.
Now it needs to know what end is.
Right so this one is going to take on in a function which is going to be our closure is going to need
to know what an is.
Why is it a closure.
Because I'm going to do the same thing I'm going to save n not in cash.
But what is this cash.
It's a non-local variable which means that it's going to be the one in the outer function since that's
the first one that gets encountered on the way up from the nested scopes.
So if N is not in cash what do I want to do.
I want to calculate it and store it in the cash just as before.
So I'm going to say cash n is equal to what will I need to calc fib of and minus one plus calculate
fib of and minus two.
And I do.
OK.
And then finally I need to return cash and right.
I need to get on.
So this is very similar to what I did in the class except we're doing this via closure.
Of course we have to return the closures.
So there we go.
This is the same kind of caching algorithm but using a closure.
How do we use it.
Well we can just say applicable Syb like so and then we can call after Ken and we just get 55.
That's because I didn't print out.
So let's go ahead and redo this.
And let's not forget to print this out so we can see what's going on.
Were these the values correct.
Go ahead copy and paste that in and I'm using.
And so that's good.
So let's go ahead redefine that redefine and get our closure.
Now rewrite it and you'll see that we have the same behavior.
Right.
We didn't have any repeated calculations because it's using the cash.
Now obviously you know just as with the class if I was to do g equals fib write and calculate g of 10
while the dot fib of 10 well it has to redo all the calculations again it's a different instance of
the class fib and the same thing with the closure if here.
This is my closure f.
I can create another closure by calling for it again and not by calculate G or 10.
Well I get the same thing I have to recalculate those g f are not the same closures therefore they don't
have the same cache.
They have different cache has their own caches.
OK so I just want to point that out and we've seen that before.
So the next step now is to basically take a look at this and rewrite this in such a way that we can
use it.
Decorator's we want to use a decorated now to do the same thing because as we saw this is very close
to decorator.
Right.
So let's go ahead and copy paste this and let's fix that up.
So the first thing I'm going to do is that this is I'm going to be you know I'm going to make it specifically
for the Fibonacci function but it's not going to be the full function because this is just going to
be a decorator and I'm going to pass in the function as an argument so let's call this member wise fib.
And I'm doing it memorize fib because it's specific to the full function let's call it Fullbright here.
We're going to pass in the fib.
OK.
Now here actually I can leave the cash as is that's fine because it's specific for the fraternity but
I actually don't have to and you'll see why in a minute so I'll leave that for now and let's just call
this inertia.
Right so this is a in a function which is going to take the N and it's going to do the same thing.
It's going to save and is not in cash.
Well I'm not going to print things out here.
Because the finish is not the recursive function in or is just our closure right.
And our decorator if it doesn't have the Fibonacci number in cash what should it do I should calculate
it.
How is it going to calculate it by calling the function.
So here we don't have this whole thing here which is going to call.
We can call Furber on and that's it.
We don't need to do anything else.
This is the function the Fibonacci function which is going to do and calculate and do its stuff.
However it wants will implemented using recursion but this function here doesn't care if fibbers implemented
using recursion or what.
You know all it's looking at is Kennet cache something.
And if it's in the cache.
Use it.
Otherwise call the function execute the function.
So you see how it's a little different than what we had with just the plain closure where we had our
recursion inside the closure.
Right.
That we had here in this decorator example we're not doing the recursion inside the decorator the decorator
is just caching.
OK.
So this is good.
This in a function requires one parameter which is fine because that's what Fibonacci expects one parameter
because we call it for Banaji of and right here.
So I think we're good to go there.
So now let's go ahead and write off our decorated Fibonacci.
And I'm just going to copy paste it right from the top so we'll go back to our original function.
Copy paste that.
But now I'm going to decorate it.
So I'm going to call memorize fib.
Right.
So now I'm decorating it with that decorator.
And let's go ahead and call it a fib 10.
And what do we get.
Lo and behold we get the same behavior.
Why.
Because the decorator was all returned a closure and that closures during the caching.
Just like we had you know in the prior example that was just the closure.
So here this decorator is basically doing the caching for us.
Now one thing you'll notice is that we're passing in this fib specifically.
But if you look at this Fatton it's basically saying hey I've got a cache where I've got the key the
key is what it's the argument of this function here.
Right.
So let's go ahead and change this slightly
and let's see what's going on.
Well first of all I want to point out and while in here or here we didn't need the cash to be populated
with anything because if it's not in the cash we go ahead and calculate it and it's got nothing to do.
This cash doesn't have to know what the standing values are.
If you want to check that let's go ahead and do this.
It's just created as an empty dictionary if it doesn't find if it needs food.
Won what are you going to do it's going to call for one.
Right.
And fibbed to it's going to call food too.
And that's going to get calculated correctly from our food function right here.
So that's why you don't need it.
So let's go ahead and run this run this run this nothing has changed right.
Everything stayed the same.
OK.
So we can remove this we can be completely agnostic and terms of the cash.
What about the function.
Well let's go ahead and just call with efen.
Now here's what I want to do.
Remember that we need to have a key for the cash and we'll get into dictionaries later on in the course
and we'll see something called hash table values.
And so here what I'm going to do is I'm going to keep it simple and I'm going to say that whatever function
we pass in here should only take a single parameter.
And that's just to make my life easier right now.
We'll look at that later when we'll look into hashing techniques.
For now this just sets a single parameter.
However the function doesn't have to be the Fibonacci function it could be anything it could be the
factorial function or any function that takes a single parameter.
Let's say we have an integer and or a string and but something that's called a hash table type but you'll
notice what it does it says.
OK.
I'm going to look in the dictionary if I find the result for this value n use it.
Otherwise if it's not in their calculated and store it it's very generic now.
Right.
So this is a memorized fib anymore.
This is just meant voice right.
It's not memorizing just the fifth function.
So let's try this out and let's go back to our first function that we have over here.
And as you'd expect this is just going to work.
Fine.
So let's go ahead and call that 10.
And you'll notice it calculates those.
Of course I can show you that.
But if you call for 10 again you don't have any calculations that come straight out of cash and if need
to do the 11 while it needs to calculate Furber 11 but it didn't need to calculate for ten and nine
because they already had those in cash right.
So we can do that now of course we can also do this we can say memorize
factorial.
Right.
And factorial of and again this is a function that takes a single parameter for a single integer.
So this memorized decorator that we wrote will work just fine because it expects just a single parameter.
So how do we calculate the factorial.
Well again we're going to say print.
Pyu late thing that factorial and we pass an N and then what we want to do once they return 1 if and
is less than 2 else with one return fact of file on return 10 times factorial of minus one.
Now let's do it without memorizing first OK.
MR.
Go ahead and do that.
And let's call fact let's say up to six and I've been an error string object has no Frot maps formats.
OK.
So you'll notice that in order to calculate six factorial you have to calculate six five four three
two one factorial.
So now let's go ahead and memorize it so that it's not memorized.
If I call fact of six you'll notice we get the same thing.
Well yeah because none of these were in cash.
But if we call it again you'll notice that it just comes straight out of cash.
It doesn't have to do any calculation.
And if we do factorial of 7 then obviously it has to calculate 7 factorial.
But some factor is seven times six factorial.
It already had six factorial right here.
So it just had to do seven times 720.
So of course it was much faster.
And to show you another example of the memoization do you think back to the Fibonacci when we did that
first example when we offered the Fibonacci of 35 and 36.
It took an awful long time to run.
So if we grab this and I'm just going to rerun it to make sure it's been defined properly now I can
call for Bonacci of 35.
And you'll notice OK it has to do these calculations initially came back real fast.
Right.
And what I'm going to do now is I'm going to take out the print just so we don't get that in between.
So let's do that.
The other day I'm going to do here is I'm going to say from time import of college cake and then Stout's
equals Paul Callan or we're just going to time it quickly and then.
And he calls Paul Callan and then we're going to say Prince and minus style.
OK.
So just I'm going to print the value out.
Well actually we could print it out.
Why not just print the result and then time it as well.
So you'll notice that to do the job of 35 only took zero point 0 0 0 two seconds which is a far cry
from the you know three four second time range that we had when we looked at that initially.
Fact with Jack that up or even do it's a pool of 200.
And you'll notice it only took that amount of time.
It's far more efficient.
So say I want to point out is that if you look at the memos that created that we wrote the one that
was over here there's a few things.
One is that it didn't.
It really forced us to use functions that only used a single parameter.
So we could fix that.
We could say something like in here.
So of course now ours is what it's a tuple.
Now we can actually use a tuple as a key in a dictionary and we'll get to that later on in the course
and we'll see precisely why you can do that but why you can't use for example a list is a key but he
can use a tuple in certain circumstances.
It depends what the tuple contains.
And this all goes back to this thing called hash table.
But you'll notice that you know even though we could do that we could use args and use ARGs in here
as the key for the cache.
We didn't do that just to keep it simple and make sure it works.
The other thing too is that we're not handling the stolen stuff.
You know the the variable length are keyword only arguments again it gets more complicated because you
need to generate a key out of the positional and the keyword only parameters.
So there's more complexity here if you really want to create a decorator that can work for just about
any function.
So we haven't done that.
That's the one thing.
The second thing that we haven't done yet also is to limit the cache size.
In this case here if I want to count you know if I say calculate of you know 100 million what it's going
to create a 100 million records in my cash and this is where you know you start getting problems with
that tradeoff that I mentioned earlier you have a good tradeoff with memory but how big do you want
this to get.
So usually you want to put in some kind of limit and say well I don't want the cash to grow beyond a
certain amount so maybe I only want to store the 10000 items in the cash or maybe 100 items in the cash
and be after that I want to start discounting items in the cash.
And typically a very common way of doing it is by using this least recently used items.
So let's say your cash is limited to 20 items and you calculate 10 items and you calculate another 10
items different ones you calculate another 10 items different ones again.
Then what happens is that the first 10 items that were cashed will get thrown out of the cash and you
still are kept on keeping a cash with 20 items in it it's just that as you add more items into the cash
it starts discounting the oldest ones.
So that's a fairly common approach.
So we could certainly write our own code to do that.
But of course this is Python.
So it's built in.
And that actually.
So that whole exercise of the memo was really to show you kind of hard words but it really gets more
complicated.
And so Python has that for us.
So let's take a look at that and it's in the From tools module.
So yet another decorator that's in the frontal model that's really interesting so let's look at it.
So from phunk tools import all you cache that's what it's called.
Right.
It's LRU cache and it stands for least recently used caching.
So that's the decorator.
So let's go ahead and grab alphabet action sequence right here.
And let's go ahead and decorated with pelo you cash.
Now there's a difference here as well.
You cash just like wraps is actually a parameterised decorator it can take parameters.
We'll see that coming up shortly.
For now I'm not going to pass any parameters.
I'm just going to leave it blank.
But I still have to make a call and you'll see why.
So let's go ahead and run this.
And so now I can call FEBE of 10.
Well let me change one thing here.
Let's go ahead and say print calculating fib just so that you can see it is going to be doing its caching.
OK.
So here I'm going to print out that with calculating food.
If food actually has to get calculated right has to be called in order to calculate the Fibonacci numbers.
So if I say five 10 what happens while we get the same thing as before.
Ten nine eight seven six five four three two one.
All those had to be calculated.
But if I call five of 10 again I'll just get the answer back and if I call fib of 11 you'll notice that
I have to calculate 11.
Right but not the remaining ones.
So this is doing the same thing.
The only difference is that LRU cache does all those extra stuff that I talked about including limiting
the cache size and by default the cache size is set to 128 items in the cache and you can look that
up in the documentation.
I'm fairly certain it's on the 28.
So what you can do though is you can modify that and this is where the parameters come in.
So just like the wraps function under parameter to tell it which function is being decorated here we
can actually specify the cache size so we can go in here.
And let me go ahead and copy paste that.
And let's set the max size let's say to 10.
OK.
So let's set the maximum size of the cache to 10.
So by default it's 128.
And actually I'm going to set it to 10.
You should set it to a factor of two.
I'm not going to get in the details of why but it's more efficient if you search your cache size to
a power of two.
So in this case I'm doing two to the power of three.
So 10 wouldn't be a good idea.
You can also set it to none if you set it to none.
Then you're basically saying it's an unlimited cash.
So it will just keep cashing until it basically runs out of memory.
All right.
Potentially So in this case I'm going to do eight because I want to show you how that works.
So here I've got a cache size of eight.
So let me go ahead and run third bifurcates.
And you'll notice that it had to calculate eight items for I call full of 8 again.
It don't have to calculate anything.
So now let me call five of 16 let me calculate 16 items so what's going to happen is that it's actually
I don't even have to do that but it's going to calculate.
Let me show you the nine.
Let's do that.
So 59 it had to calculate for nine but none of the others.
Now if I call five nine again you'll notice it doesn't have to do it again because while it's a read
in cash.
But what was the first item stored in the cash for.
One right.
We have one through eight.
Now we added five nines of food.
One fell off the table.
Let's go ahead and take a look at that one.
It had to recalculate it.
So it had to recalculate.
So I'd put that in the cash.
So what fell off.
Now ef 2 right now if I call flip 3 no notice it doesn't have to recalculate it.
But if I call five of two it had to recalculate because 52 was now the oldest item.
Right.
So that's that's the way it works.
So let me start again.
OK.
So let's go ahead and again call ferde eight.
So now we we have the 8.
Well yeah no it didn't clear the cash.
Let me go ahead and run from here again for eight right.
And let's just get rid of all this.
So just a slightly different example.
So if I call for 8 again right.
It doesn't have to recalculate hits the cash directly.
Now we call five of 16.
What's going to happen is that one through eight is going to get tossed out.
Right.
So if I go for 16 it had to calculate 16 through 9.
But now if I try and calculate from 8 it has to redo a whole bunch of calculations to get back from
8.
And now by the way that 16 is gone and so is 5 9.
So if I call five of nine that's out of the cash that's why it had to be recalculated anyways.
It's just a cash and it uses the least recently used basically the oldest item in the cash gets tossed
forced.
All right.
So that's it for decorator's on you know this video with the memoization.
Hopefully it shows you that they can be really powerful things.
They don't have to be just simple little logging and timing things.
You can see this can really enhance your code and you're really changing the way the behavior of your
function.
Right.
Instead of recalculating every time it's now caching.
So it's doing other things that make it a lot more powerful a lot more efficient.
All right thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.